---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Assignment 7 - Holly Rieping
author: Holly Rieping
tags:
  - Week 4
---
In his article “The Dominant, the Residual and the Emergent in Archival Imagination”, Lawrence Liang discusses the residual value left behind by selecting dominant value to tell a narrative, how that residual value can tell a new narrative, and how we might think of archives as an emergent form as we transition from the traditional to the digital. Applying his thoughts to the MIT Black Oral History Project, I viewed the edited transcripts and the original book that resulted from the project as the dominant value that was selected to tell the narrative while the original recordings that we’re working with are the residual value that haven’t been used to tell a narrative since their transcription. Through the differences between the edited stories and the original recordings, we may find residual value that enhances the narrative or tells an entirely new narrative. 

After discussing residual and dominant value, Liang suggests that the digital era has blurred the traditional lines drawn between databases, archives, and collections and that we can now change the definitions of what proper use of materials might look like if we, “...think of the archive less as an institution or even a designated set of practices but as an emergent form” (10). The democratization of the archive gives us more voices and more stories to work with as a dominant value rather than just powerful ones while minorities were left in the residual. With this emergent form, we can find a new, creative way to bring these narratives to like in the MIT Black Oral History Project while thinking outside of the traditional archival bounds.

In his response to Liang’s article “The Contingent and the Predictive--A Response to Lawrence Liang”, Robert Rapoport extends Liang’s discussion of “the contingent” in archives and shows how the archive can evolve to, “...re-imagine the relationship between the collective and the algorithmic, recovering the contingent from the predictive” (1). He defines contingency as, “...a state in which change exceeds our ability to systemize or narrate it” (1). He argues that with the use of digital technology like big data, automation, algorithms, etc. we may enter an era where we won’t be able to tell if the narrative is being told by humans or if a computer put it together based on predictive patterns. Along with this, we may be presented with so much information on a topic that was previously rare to us, and lose the value we used to see in it, like the example of slow motion videos he uses. So, in our project, we must find a way to maintain the human narrative and meaning while using technology to enhance the project, not dominate it.
