---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Assignment 6 Reading - Holly Rieping
author: Holly Rieping
tags:
  - Week 4
---
In her article “Dealing with the silence”, Valerie Johnson explains the different types and causes of silence in archives and proposes various solutions to fill the silence both retroactively and looking forward. She offers four main solutions to filing the silence: “allowing silent voices to speak, finding alternative voices, reading voices back into the past, and ensuring in the future that more voices are considered in the telling” (113). She also proposes the idea of “acknowledging the silence as silence” (105).
Historically, BIPOC voices have been especially silenced at primarily white institutions, so by nature, the Black Oral History Project literally allows those silenced Black voices to speak. This also applies to the fourth solution as the project ensures that these silent voices are given the space to tell their own stories in their own words. 
However, the archive may still contain gaps within the Black MIT community that could tell stories of absence. For example, many of the participants were the first something (e.g. first black person to earn a PhD in a subject at MIT, first black woman to earn a PhD in any subject at MIT, etc.) at MIT. With all of these firsts from nearly 30 years ago, the archive may show that at the time, there were still plenty of firsts that hadn’t been reached yet. These gaps give us a possibility to acknowledge the silence as silence if we find a way to reveal these gaps and show what has and what has not changed since the recordings.
The Black Oral History Project focuses on telling the story of the Black MIT community, but does so with interviews from both black and nonblack faculty, students, alumni, and administration. This attempts to find alternative voices and tell the story of the Black MIT community from multiple perspectives at the time. However, looking at it from our current point of view, we lack the voices from both before and after the interviews. It would be easier to gather more voices from the 30 years since the interviews and tell the story of the community as it has changed over that time, but we would have to try the third technique of reading voices back into the past to try and fill in the gaps from the hundred or so years of history before the interviews. 
I really enjoyed reading Johnson’s ideas of how to deal with the silence, especially since I wrote a whole final paper for a CMS film class on the idea of invisible representation in film and how both intentional and unintentional lack of representation can tell stories of minority oppression in films. I found her solutions interesting, and thought the contrast with the concept that, “...there will always be material that will not survive” (113) was very eye-opening. 
